Add ERC-777 developer docs (#3703)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-777/index.md

---
title: ERC-777 Token Standard
description:
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

## Introduction? {#introduction}

ERC-777 is a fungible token standard improving the existing [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) standard.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

> To better understand this page, we recommend you first read about [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better understand this page, we recommend you first read about [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/).
```

> 
> ## Breaking down the definition {#breaking-down-the-definition}
> 
> Token standards describe how a smart contract should be implemented so that it is compatible with other smart contracts and clients know how to interact with it.
> 
> A smart contract that implements the ERC-20 standard has methods to keep track of generated tokens, send tokens to addresses and get total supply of tokens. For a full list of methods see [EIP-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20).
> 
> The tokens generated by ERC-777 compatible smart contracts are [fungible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungibility) that is they are equivalent and interchangeable.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'd remove this because it is already covered in the prerequisite section 🙂

## What improvements does ERC-777 propose over ERC-20? {#-erc-777-vs-erc-20}

The ERC-777 provides the following improvements over ERC-20.

### Hooks {#hooks}

> Hooks are a function described in a smart contract that will be called when tokens are sent or received. Essentially, smart contracts can react to incoming or outgoing tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hooks are a function described in the code of a smart contract. Hooks get called when tokens are sent or received through the contract. This allows a smart contract to react to incoming or outgoing tokens.
```

The hooks are registered and discovered using the [ERC-1820](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1820) standard.

#### Why are hooks great? {#why-are-hooks-great}

> 1. They allow to send tokens to a contract and notify it in a single transaction, unlike [ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20) which requires a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this.
> 2. Prevent accidental transfers to non ERC-777 smart contracts. In cases where the receiving contract has not registered a hook thus not compatible with ERC-777. The sending contract will abort the transaction.
> 3. Hooks can reject transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Hook allow sending tokens to a contract and notifying the contract in a single transaction, unlike [ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20), which requires a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this.
2. Contracts that have not registered hooks are incompatible with ERC-777. The sending contract will abort the transaction when the receiving contract has not registered a hook. This prevents accidental transfers to non-ERC-777 smart contracts.
3. Hooks can reject transactions.
```

### Decimals {#decimals}

> The standard also improves the confusion around `decimals` in ERC-20. Thus, making development a bit easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard also solves the confusion around `decimals` caused in ERC-20. This clarity improves the developer experience.
```

---
title: ERC-777 Token Standard
description:
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

## Introduction? {#introduction}

ERC-777 is a fungible token standard improving the existing [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) standard.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

> [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better understand this page, we recommend you first read about [ERC-20](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/)
```

> ## Body {#body}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Breaking down the definition {#breaking-down-the-definition}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Breaking down the definition {#breaking-down-the-definition}
```

Token standards describe how a smart contract should be implemented so that it is compatible with other smart contracts and clients know how to interact with it.

A smart contract that implements the ERC-20 standard has methods to keep track of generated tokens, send tokens to addresses and get total supply of tokens. For a full list of methods see [EIP-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20).

The tokens generated by ERC-777 compatible smart contracts are [fungible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fungibility) that is they are equivalent and interchangeable.

> ### What improvements does ERC-777 propose over ERC-20? {#what-improvements-does-erc-777-propose-over-erc-20}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What improvements does ERC-777 propose over ERC-20? {#-erc-777-vs-erc-20}
```

The ERC-777 provides the following improvements over ERC-20.

> #### Hooks {#hooks}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hooks {#hooks}
```

Hooks are a function described in a smart contract that will be called when tokens are sent or received. Essentially, smart contracts can react to incoming or outgoing tokens.

The hooks are registered and discovered using the [ERC-1820](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1820) standard.

> ##### Why are hooks great? {#why-are-hooks-great}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Why are hooks great? {#why-are-hooks-great}
```

1. They allow to send tokens to a contract and notify it in a single transaction, unlike [ERC-20](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20) which requires a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this.
2. Prevent accidental transfers to non ERC-777 smart contracts. In cases where the receiving contract has not registered a hook thus not compatible with ERC-777. The sending contract will abort the transaction.
3. Hooks can reject transactions.

> #### Decimals {#decimals}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Decimals {#decimals}
```

The standard also improves the confusion around `decimals` in ERC-20. Thus, making development a bit easier.

> #### Backwards compatibility with ERC-20 {#backwards-compatibility-with-erc-20}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Backwards compatibility with ERC-20 {#backwards-compatibility-with-erc-20}
```

> It means that ERC-777 contracts can be interacted with as if they were ERC-20 contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ERC-777 contracts can be interacted with as if they were ERC-20 contracts.
```
